                                            Structured Query Language (SQL)


What is SQL?
-->SQL, which stands for Structured Query Language, is a domain-specific programming language (e.g., a language targeted to a specific task or problem) that is commonly used for tasks such as inserting, updating, querying, and deleting data within a database. SQL is also used to create and modify database schemas (e.g., data formatting rules, table/index structure ) as well as define database access and administration parameters.

What is structured data?
--> Structured data is data that is organized in a consistent, predefined format and often consists of alphanumeric characters. Examples include financial transactions, inventory records, or customer lists which are often stored in SQL databases (e.g., relational databases).

What is a SQL database?
--> When the term "SQL database" is used, it refers to a type of database where SQL is the primary programming language used to create and manage that database. SQL application programming interfaces (APIs) contain groups of functions that enable developers to execute and manage database operations without having to create individual SQL commands over and over.

Not only Structured Query Language (NoSQL)
What is NoSQL?
NoSQL, which stands for Not only SQL, is a database management system approach used to ingest, store, and retrieve unstructured data and semi-structured data within a database. This means that data that cannot be analyzed or counted through traditional relational databases (e.g., SQL) can remain in its native format and be ingested into a NoSQL database. The reason it is called NoSQL is to emphasize that these databases can handle non-tabular, non-relational data models as well as support SQL-like query languages.

What is unstructured data?
Unstructured data is data that doesn't have a predefined data model or consistent organization. In addition, unstructured data, such as social media posts, can update and change rapidly while structured data, such as bank transactions, have a much lower rate of change. Examples of unstructured data include pictures, audio files, videos, and maps.

What is a NoSQL database?
--> NoSQL databases are databases that utilize a flexible schema that accommodates unstructured data and semi-structured data while also utilizing a non-tabular data storage method.